Welcome to the behavioral AI portion of the PPT. Here we will be getting into the different types of machine learning techniques, as well as touching on its practicality, advantages, and disadvantages. Before we begin, as a helpful tip for the road to come, dont let the technical jargon fool you, just take all the information provided at face vaule and you'll be fine.

So , now lets get into the basic concept of behaviorist AI. So the concept comes form the idea that intelligence can be modeled based on observable behavior -- not internal thoughts or reasonable thought processes. It's inspired by behaviorism in psychology, which focuses on how organisms responds to stimuli through conditioning and reinforcements rather than on internal mental states.

We can look at its psycholohical roots. It was founded by psychologists like John B Watson and B.F Skinner. The core idea is that behavior is shaped by stimuli and reinforcement, not by thinking or feeling. So if an action leads to a reward, its more likely that we will repeat that action and it becomes more likely to happen again.

Behaviorist AI applies that very same principle. An intelligent AI can learn purely from interactions with the environment through trial, error, and feedback, without needing internal representations or reasoning. So basically, with enough time and data, a machine learning AI can mimic human intelligence by responding to stimuli as an average person would, without knowing why or how apart from the knowledge that this is in fact what a human would do.

Some key concepts, when it comes to agents and machine learning, we ahve a few different technical jargon that we need to know. The first is stimulus, or input, which is basically what the agent receives from its environment. The second one is the response, or action, which  is what the agent does in response to the input. Next, we ahev reinforcement, or feedback, this is the outcome that happens upon the agent. The last is the learning rule, which updates the agents behavior, and teaches it to make better decisions in the long run.

In modern reinforcement learning, which is a direct descendant of behaviorist ideas. A reinforcement learning agent observes its environemnt, acts in response, receives a reward, and then learns a new policy to maximise its total reward. With this method, humans have managed to made robots such as AlphaGo that managed to beat the World Chess Champion.

Theres a difference between behaviorist and cognitive AI. Cognitive AI is something you might see in teams that are presenting stuff like Symbolic AI, which largely uses cognitive ai. Behavior ai is different, it focuses on external behavior, it learns from trial and error, while cognitive AI mostly focuses on internal models, learning using symbolic AI.

As a summary, behaviorist ai receives stimulus, gets a response, uses reinforcement, learns from it. Its black-box learning. wE dont actually know whats going inside their minds, all we do know is that it gives us the desired outcome and therefore we keep nurturing that.

Machine learning and AI: in machine learning there is going to be 4 main types of AI. we have Supervised learning, unsupervised learning, semi-supervised learning, and reinforcement learning. They all have their own points and purposes. 

First is Supervised learning. This method is done by feeding the agent labeled data, or we can think of them as questions with answers. this is usually done with a human researcher, who has to go through all the data, label them and then feed them to the agent, in order to train it to recognize patterns, generalize them and then make accurate predictions on new unseen data in the future. This method of machine learning is usually more costly, because it requires not only the data, but it also needs someone to label the data for the agent. 

Supervised learning is mainly used for two main purposes: classification and regression. Classification is pretty self-explanatory. It sorts and identifies the data to two distinct classes. For example, the data can be sorted to two classes, class A and class B. A real life example would be like having your mail sorted as spam, or not spam. Next us regression. For regression, instead of drawing a hard line between the data, the agent graphs the data as continuous values, such as price and probabilities. Instead of splitting them into the top or bottom half, we take the data as it is. An example of such case would  be like predicting housing prices or tomorrows' temperature. If we compare similar cases in classification, in classification, if we ask the agent if it will be hot or cold tomorrow, based on previous data, it would say 'hot' or 'cold'. With regression, instead of saying 'hot' or 'cold' it will just give us its prediction of tomorrows' temperature in numbers.

Moving on to Unsupervised learning. This method of learning, unlike supervised learning, does not require any form of labeled data or human researchers to nurture. It trains on unlabeled data to find and uncover hidden patterns, form clusters, or just simplify the data. This method of machine learning, because it doesnt require labeled data, is a lot more cost-efficient than Supervised learning.

Unsupervised learning has 3 main purposes. We have clustering, dimensionality reduction, and association rule mining. Clustering is essentially just grouping certain pools of data with similar values. We can input some data and the agent will sort it based on their similarity in characteristics. Dimensionality reduction is essentially squishing down the data to make a denser, lighter block of information, kind of like turning something 2D to 1D, while still keeping all the important information. This method is often used at the pre-processing data stage. Association rule mining, is when the agent looks for relationships between the variables of the data, similar to how certain businesses can see what products are often grouped with others. With assocciation rule mining, they can discover a pattern between sales among the products sales. Lets take Tom for example, who buys a watermelon, and then buys a watermelon slicer. The AI will notice that there is a similarity between these 2 products.

Now, we move on to Semi-supervised learning, which is a sub-branch of supervised and unsupervised learning, taking the best of both worlds and combines them to get a better machine learning agent. The idea is this: we have a bunch of input data, some labeled and some not. we first feed the labeled data to the agent, who learns from it and notices a pattern. After that, we input the unlabeled data. The agent, because it already has a previous knowledge of what it has to do, is able to learn from it more efficiently than if it didnt have it. Semi-supervised learning involves mixing in small amounts of labeled data in with the unlabeled data, which helps the agent develop an idea for how to sort the remaining data. If we take an example of how humans study, if we were to learn mathematics from reading a textbook, that would be similar to how supervised learning works, where we learn from the pattern between the solution and the questions. Unsupervised learning would be like how humans learn from doing exercises, where we dont know the answer but we learn through practicality from searching, or calculating the answers. Semi-supervised learning would be like doing both. You first read the textbook, understand the material provided and then solidify it by doing exercise questions.  